# Masters Thesis

## DETECTION OF PRESENT BIAS IN MULTI-FACTOR AUTHENTICATION SYSTEMS BASED ON DEMOGRAPHICS

### ABSTRACT
#### Dominique Schreiner
#### Northeastern University 
##### schreiner.d@northeastern.edu
#### As technology advances adaptation for personal use continues to increase and the need for privacy and security usage resultantly increases. Studies show that people are concerned about their personal information safety, and yet the usage of privacy and security methods are not being adopted by users. Although Multi-Factor Authentication (MFA) systems are not recently released technologies they are still lagging with mass adoption. As people refuse to incorporate this technology, and with time MFA systems evolve to be more complex to provide more security and hack prevention, as a result MFA system use will remain stagnant. These authentication systems are convenient, simple and time efficient. These systems are designed for everyone to use, yet many are only used if forced. This led to the exploration of Present Bias. One would think that protection of their personal data would be enough of a reward to incentivize the use of MFA systems. However, that alone is not enough. In order to detect whether it is Present Bias affecting the incorporation of MFA into everyday use, I am testing whether demographic factors impact the use with the use of a survey and machine learning algorithms. The two machine learning models I will use are Multiple Linear Regression and K-Means Clustering to predict and classify in order to explain the demographic factors affecting authentication system adoption. Another researcher and I have collaborated using K-Nearest Neighbor and Hierarchical Agglomerative Clustering algorithms to test psychological and demographic factors to provide further insight to MFA adoption.
